College Checklist
In our first meeting my academic advisor told me to “take all the fuckin’ ice cream.” This man has advanced degrees from Columbia, MIT, and Harvard, and he was, in his way, trying to say something critical: chill out. Calm down. Take it slow. 

I was too impressed by “fuckin’ ice cream.”

That’s a good marker of how expectant and excited and naïve I was going into college—you will be too, no matter how jaded you think you are. You will be lost, mostly, but feel like you need to rush-party--reinvent—network and aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.

Here are some aphorisms. May they be less cryptic, and sufficiently explained.
~+~

QUICK START GUIDE

College is what you make of it.
Let's start with a huge cliché, because college can be that too.

Differences between high school and college

Welcome Week** [is your grand entrance] they want to coddle you

all of your friends will be randos from welcome week
what does that mean for anyone
coddling
RA

You will miss the hokey Freshman activities and obligations when they're gone

Being a freshman is a blank slate. THE CODDLING simultaneously freedom

College oscillates. It is contradictory. Welcome.

a middle state [with a lot of contradictions]

 transitory and transient.
You get both protection and freedom

College is a new level of freedom. It is also a 
The level of protection and freedom that you get in college is unparalleled. 

[There is a weird balance here. Some people go crazy]

you are expected to make your own decisions and to take care of yourself.
MISTAKES 
some will be exhilarating and irresponsible. 
callous unthinking
they can be agonizingly mundane.
they will be revelatory.

bite off more than you can chew and send it back
you get to decide what is most important to you

don't waste all of your time though


ACADEMICS

SOCIAL

CA$$$$$$$H

REAL WORLD

YOU





Professors are everything.
They are no longer proxies for the same curriculum, with more or less 
efficacy.

Ask questions. Ask for help. Advocate for yourself. Say no.
Take your time. Hurry up. The choice is yours, don’t be late.
Due diligence.
Do your homework. This is a college lesson, but also a life lesson. Go to
class. Talk with your professors after class. Use their office hours. Hang
out with your TA.

Read.
Read your academic readings. Read the contracts you are asked to 
sign. Read books for fun—academic libraries, oof—hold on

USE YOUR SCHOOL’S LIBRARY and other resources.
You are spending so much money. Take advantage of the facilities.

Audit and drop classes.
Do not be ashamed to admit that you need help, whether personal, 
academic, or otherwise.
Asking will get you further than not asking, unless you suck at asking.
Bend the rules. Know which ones to bend
Learning is about synthesis. Tracking is about specialization. Make 
friends who are outside.
Start your essay earlier than you think you should.

College is about exuberance
and about learning
the time is short
go make stuff
everything you make can add

self care




Get a laptop. Get a fake ID. Get a grip.
#YOLO is so 2011, but if the OO is endangering the YL, then it’s not 
logically worth it, is it

No one will have a stable career anymore. There is opportunity for 
change [heeeyey, cliche]. So much potential

TAKE TIME FOR YOURSELF.

Be humble - humility isn't about
reality isn't about quashing idealism
but know which ones are dead ends

explore
make mistakes get hands on that's how you learn the best reading can only do so much taking other peoples' innovations can only get you so far… not very far


Modulation-moderation

have projects all the time. have nothing all the time.

Introverts: practice talking.
Extroverts: practice listening.
Keep a journal. You’ll find your previous selves charming, maybe infuriating.
The best way to learn a skill is to practice, and the best practice is 
[tinkering? Making?]
Always reconsider. Think about your position. Go 180. Now 90. Now the other gradations we never talk about. Consider a perspective from 23, or in 3D or 4D.
Be happy.
Take care of your body.
DON’T START SMOKING

Discuss the material in class and in your head and with your friends 
who are pre-med and art history and economics and comp-sci and agriculture and didn't even go to school

ASK ASK ASK you are helpless it's okay


jobs search can be done before you're out of school
shopping around and knowing what you should have experience with/skills

have a second and third and fourth plan
make them tenuous
be open to chain cuz its cominnngaa
fallback and fallback and fallback

practice and practice and practice

